Git Steps
 Bookmark this page
Step 1: Download and Install Git

1. Visit the official Git website: https://git-scm.com/

2. Download the appropriate version of Git for your operating system (Windows, macOS, or Linux).

3. Run the installer and follow the on-screen instructions to complete the installation.

4. Open a terminal or command prompt and verify the installation by typing  git−−version .

Step 2: Download and Install Visual Studio Code

1. Go to the Visual Studio Code website: https://code.visualstudio.com/

2. Download the installer for your operating system (Windows, macOS, or Linux).

3. Run the installer and follow the installation prompts.

4. Launch Visual Studio Code.

Step 3: Create a GitHub Account

1. Open a web browser and go to https://github.com/

2. Click on the "Sign up" button.

3. Follow the registration process, providing your username, email address, and password.

4. Complete the verification process if prompted.

Step 4: Create a GitHub Repository

1. Log in to your GitHub account.

2. Click on your profile icon in the upper right corner and select "Your repositories" from the dropdown menu.

3. On the "Repositories" page, click the green "New" button.

4. Fill in the required information for your new repository, including the repository name, description, visibility, and other settings.

5. Optionally, you can choose to initialize the repository with a README file or add a .gitignore file for your specific project.

6. Click the green "Create repository" button to create your GitHub repository.

Step 5: Create a Local Folder

1. Minimize any open windows on your computer to see your desktop.

2. Right-click on an empty area of your desktop.

3. Hover over "New" in the context menu.

4. Click on "Folder" to create a new folder.

5. Give your folder a meaningful name, like "MyProject."

Step 6: Open the Folder in Visual Studio Code

1. Launch Visual Studio Code.

2. Click on "File" in the top-left corner.

3. Select "Open Folder" from the dropdown menu.

4. Browse to your desktop and select the folder you created in Step 5 (e.g., "MyProject").

5. Click the "Open" button to open the folder in Visual Studio Code.

Step 7: Clone Your GitHub Repository

1. In Visual Studio Code, open the integrated terminal by clicking on "View" in the top menu and selecting "Terminal" or using the keyboard shortcut (Ctrl+ on Windows/Linux or Cmd+ on macOS).

2. Use the git clone command to clone your GitHub repository by pasting the HTTPS URL of your repository. Replace repository_url with the actual URL.

   git clone <repository_url>

3. Navigate to the newly created repository folder using the  cd  command:

   cd <repository_name>

Step 8: Check Git Status

1. To check the status of your local repository, enter the following command:

   git status

Step 9: Modify the README File

1. Open the README file in your repository folder using Visual Studio Code.

2. Make the desired modifications to the README file.

Step 10: Check Git Status Again

1. Return to the terminal in Visual Studio Code.

2. Use the  gitstatus  command again to see the changes you made:

   git status

 

Step 11: Add Modifications to Staging Area

1. To stage your changes for a commit, use the  gitadd  command:

   git add README.md

Step 12: Commit Your Changes

1. Commit your staged changes with a descriptive message:

   git commit -m "Updated README file"

Step 13: Push Changes to GitHub

1. Push your committed changes to your GitHub repository:

   git push

Step 14: Create a New Branch

1. To create a new branch, use the  gitbranch  command followed by the desired branch name:

   git branch branch_name

Step 15: Switch to the New Branch

1. To switch to the newly created branch, use the  gitcheckout  command:

   git checkout branch_name

Step 16: Check Your Current Branch

1. To confirm the branch you're currently working on, use the  gitbranch  command:

  git branch

You've now completed the entire process of setting up a development environment, downloading and installing Git and Visual Studio Code, creating a GitHub account and repository, managing your code, and working with branches. You are ready to start coding and collaborating on your projects with confidence.